RD Station Manual Report

1. Purpose of this document
  This report explains the various activities performed in order to understand the basic functions and workflows of RD Station.

2. Application Overview
  RD Station is an inbound marketing management and automation system, available as a service on http://www.rdstation.com/.
  For the purpose of this document, a staging environment was used, available on https://app-staging.rdstation.com.br/
  RD Station enables the user to post to and monitor social media accounts, manage SEO, hire Facebook Ads, create and manage landing pages, forms, blogs, automate lead segmentation, e-mail marketing and build reports on activities related to the company online presence.

3. Testing Scope
  In Scope
    Exploratory and Functional Testing of the following modules: Registration page, Login page, Dashboard, Atrair, Converter, Relacionar, Analisar.

  Out of Scope
    Performance Testing (Load, Stress, Endurance, Scalability, etc.)
    Security Testing

  Items not tested
    All actions that included publishing to social media or sending e-mails, as requested by Ms. Bárbara Cabral.
    Atrair > Facebook Ads page, as requested on line 22
    Dashboard > "Páginas Mais Acessadas deste Mês" section, as requested on line 22

4. Types of testing performed
  Manual Functional Testing of all the modules
  Automated Functional Testing of the "Base de Leads" module

5. Test Environment & Tools
  Windows 10 Pro
  Google Chrome 60.0.3112.90 64 bits - Manual testing
  Firefox 54.0.1 (64-bit) - Automated testing
  Atom 1.18.0 x64 - Text editor
  Application url - https://app-staging.rdstation.com.br/
  Tests automated using Ruby and Cucumber. For more information, check /features/README.MD

6. Planned and Executed Tests
  Time spent:
  Wed, 17/08/02 - 1:30h - Trying to create account and reading Ship It! blog QA articles
  Thu, 17/08/03 - 2:30h - Test environment setup and system overview.
  Fri, 17/08/04 - 
  Sat, 17/08/05 - 
  
  First, I took my time to acknowledge the system, imagine and run some test scenarios, listed bellow.
  Those are not meant to be exhaustive, neither should be taken as a full test suite.
  The happy path should be covered in all features, including adding, editing and removing information, when applicable.
    
  Possible test scenarios
  System-wide (executed in every page and modal)
    Checking for broken hyperlinks, buttons or options
    Check if layout meets specifications
    Test fields character limit, acceptance of special characters

  Login Screen:
    Login with valid credentials
    Login with valid e-mail and invalid password
    Login without e-mail
    Login without password
    Simple SQL Injection on password field

  Dashboard page

    "Funil de Vendas" section
      Changing the report month for all tabs (from Jan/6611 b.c. to Aug/2017)
      Selecting which tabs should be displayed
      Trying to open an empty tab
      Changing the goal for a tab and saving it
      Changing the goal for a tab, but canceling it
      Changing the goal for a tab and clicking outside the "Metas do Funil de Vendas" modal
      Checking for broken hyperlinks both in the section and the modals

    "Últimas Conversões de Lead" section
      Testing the left/right flow control buttons
      Adding a lead manually and checking if it appears on "50 Últimas Conversões de Lead"
      Deleting a lead and checking if it appears on "50 Últimas Conversões de Lead"

    "Última Landing Page" section
      Creating and publishing a new landing page and checking if it appears on "Última Landing Page" section
      Unpublishing the last landing page published and checking if it appears on "Última Landing Page" section
      Republishing an unpublished last landing page created and checking if it appears on "Última Landing Page" section

    "Última campanha de e-mail" section
      Checking for broken hyperlinks, buttons or options

    "Atrair > Postagens em Mídias Sociais" page
      Creating a new post schedule
      Filtering posting schedules by social media
      Changing calendar view (week/month)
      Removing a scheduled post
      Selecting different weeks/months
      Returning to current date

    "Atrair > Painel de Palavras-Chave"
      Adding a new keyword
      Getting blog title ideas from a keyword
      Removing a keyword
      Ordering keywords by different parameters
      Changing the keyword relevance

    "Atrair > Otimização de SEO"
      Create a report for a existing website
      Create a report for a website that requires redirecting
      Create a report for a non-existent website
      Trying to generate a report without keyword
      Trying to generate a report without website address

    "Atrair > Ferramentas para Blog"
      Creating a blog title suggestion based on a keyword
      Request a blog

    "Converter > Landing Pages"
      Creating and publishing a new landing page
      Unpublishing a landing page
      Republishing an unpublished landing page
      Editing an existing landing page
      Deleting a landing page
      Exporting a landing page
      Viewing a landing page statistics
      Changing the number of items shown in page
      Order landing pages by name
      Order landing pages by date of creation
      Order landing pages by status

    "Converter > Formulários"
      Create a new form
      Preview a new form during creation
      Edit an existing form
      Adding a new custom field
      Auto complete fields with lead base data
      Checking if required fields are filled
      Change a form title
      Change a form style
      Enable/disable new conversion notification e-mail
      Enable/disable sending e-mails to generated leads
      Setting a redirection website
      Setting a thank you message
      Verify html code generate
      Send HTML code by e-mail

    "Converter > Pop-ups"
      Create a new pop-up
      Publish a pop-up
      Unpublish a pop-ip
      Edit a pop-up
      Delete a pop-up
      Search for a pop-up
      Change the number of pop-ups shown in list

    "Converter > Campos Personalizados"
      Create a custom field
      Edit a custom field
      Delete a custom field
      Search for a custom field
      Change the number of custom fields shown in list
      Removing a custom field used by a published form

    "Relacionar > Monitoramento de Mídias Sociais"



7. Bugs and Recommendations
System-wide
  Recommendation: Standardize pop-up notification style. In some screens the system uses a custom one (red background and red font), in others it uses the browser default.

Registration page - https://app-staging.rdstation.com.br/cadastro
  Recommendation: When the customer fills the zip code field, the page could automatically fill Street, City and State fields.
  Recommendation: After failing to create an account, the page removes the info typed in the name and job title fields. It could keep the information in those fields, that hold no sensitive data.
  Bug: When trying to register as a natural/legal person, when I fill all required fields (/screenshots/Registration_page_filled.png)
and click create account, I get an error message (/screenshots/registration_error.png). No field is highlighted. Expected Result: Account creation successful

"Atrair > Painel de Palavras-Chave" - https://app-staging.rdstation.com.br/palavras-chave
  Recommendation: Change the "Export to Excel" button label to "Export to csv" or add the option to export to xls/xlsx

"Atrair > Ferramentas para Blog" - https://app-staging.rdstation.com.br/blog
  Bug: The "Request Blog" button hyperlink is broken - Error 404 (/screenshots/blog_quotation_404.png)
  Bug: Generating a suggestion with long words without spaces breaks the page layout (/screenshots/line_break.png). Expected Result Suggestion: word is wrapped automatically.
